src/userfs/README.md, before:

# userfs

A way to save and load small files in the web browser and a desktop environment. If you don't do a web build, you don't need this package. When building for desktop, the `userfs` uses `os.user_data_dir()` as base path, while on web, it uses `localStorage` of the web browser.

## Usage

- In Odin, import the package and call it's members, e.g. `userfs.init()`, `userfs.read()` etc.

- In JS, when build is done:

    + make sure `userfs.js` is copied to the web output (just like `odin.js`), something like this (assuming `SPACELIB_DIR` is path to the `src` dir of SpaceLib collection):
        ```cmd
        copy %SPACELIB_DIR%\userfs\userfs.js %OUT_DIR%
        ```
        __Note__: you don't need the collection, if you want only `userfs`, copy the package dir to your project and just make sure the `userfs.js` is placed in web output dir; you can do it once manually in case your web output dir will not be wiped.

    + make sure `index.html` includes `userfs.js`, sets memory and the imports, something like this:
        ```html
        <script src="userfs.js"></script>
        <!-- ... -->
        <script>
            // ...
            window.userfs.memory = odinMemory
            odinImports.userfs = window.userfs.imports
        </script>
        ```
        - `odinMemory` is an instance of odin.`WasmMemoryInterface`
        - `odinImports` is from `odin.setupDefaultImports(odinMemory)`
        - __Note__: this must be done before instantiating web assembly (`index.wasm`).

## window.userfs

Generally you don't need to use JS part to work with the storage, as you develop in Odin and debug a desktop build. Following functionality allows quick and easy check the status of the storage in the web browser console:

- `userfs.info()` to print current state of the storage, it shows app name and all keys in alphabetical order with actual size of data in bytes for that key.

    __Note__: the size is actual size in bytes in vacuum, e.g. it is not how much data stored in the browser, as it stores also key and extra meta data (presumable); think of it as "these 53 bytes must match file size when running desktop build".

- `userfs.keys()` to get all keys storage has.

- `userfs.query_bytes()` to get array of bytes for a specific key; this should be exact you pass to `userfs.write()` in Odin as data of `[]byte`.

- `userfs.query_text()` to get those bytes additionally decoded as text; if you write text (maybe json content), this should correctly decode the original text.

- `userfs.imports.reset()` to reset the storage (delete all the keys).

    __Note__: this is not the same as `localStorage.clear()`, a way to clear all the `localStorage` for current web site.

## Comments

Currently we use `localStorage`, it has limits:

- 5MB maximum per web site.

- Simple `key->value` storage where `key` and `value` are strings; even if you use `localStorage.setItem("a", {x:1,y:2})`, the `localStorage.getItem("a")` will return string `[object Object]`; this is why we don't emulate tree structure with objects, e.g. `localStorage.userfs.app_name.key`, as it will not work; instead we build each key like `userfs/app_name/key`.

Commit message:

userfs: README: Add note on running userfs.info() in Itch.io environment

src/userfs/README.md, after:

# userfs

A way to save and load small files in the web browser and a desktop environment. If you don't do a web build, you don't need this package. When building for desktop, the `userfs` uses `os.user_data_dir()` as base path, while on web, it uses `localStorage` of the web browser.

## Usage

- In Odin, import the package and call it's members, e.g. `userfs.init()`, `userfs.read()` etc.

- In JS, when build is done:

    + make sure `userfs.js` is copied to the web output (just like `odin.js`), something like this (assuming `SPACELIB_DIR` is path to the `src` dir of SpaceLib collection):
        ```cmd
        copy %SPACELIB_DIR%\userfs\userfs.js %OUT_DIR%
        ```
        __Note__: you don't need the collection, if you want only `userfs`, copy the package dir to your project and just make sure the `userfs.js` is placed in web output dir; you can do it once manually in case your web output dir will not be wiped.

    + make sure `index.html` includes `userfs.js`, sets memory and the imports, something like this:
        ```html
        <script src="userfs.js"></script>
        <!-- ... -->
        <script>
            // ...
            window.userfs.memory = odinMemory
            odinImports.userfs = window.userfs.imports
        </script>
        ```
        - `odinMemory` is an instance of odin.`WasmMemoryInterface`
        - `odinImports` is from `odin.setupDefaultImports(odinMemory)`
        - __Note__: this must be done before instantiating web assembly (`index.wasm`).

## window.userfs

Generally you don't need to use JS part to work with the storage, as you develop in Odin and debug a desktop build. Following functionality allows quick and easy check the status of the storage in the web browser console:

- `userfs.info()` to print current state of the storage, it shows app name and all keys in alphabetical order with actual size of data in bytes for that key.

    __Note__: the size is actual size in bytes in vacuum, e.g. it is not how much data stored in the browser, as it stores also key and extra meta data (presumable); think of it as "these 53 bytes must match file size when running desktop build".

- `userfs.keys()` to get all keys storage has.

- `userfs.query_bytes()` to get array of bytes for a specific key; this should be exact you pass to `userfs.write()` in Odin as data of `[]byte`.

- `userfs.query_text()` to get those bytes additionally decoded as text; if you write text (maybe json content), this should correctly decode the original text.

- `userfs.imports.reset()` to reset the storage (delete all the keys).

    __Note__: this is not the same as `localStorage.clear()`, a way to clear all the `localStorage` for current web site.

## Notes

1. Currently we use `localStorage`, it has limits:

- 5MB maximum per web site.

- Simple `key->value` storage where `key` and `value` are strings; even if you use `localStorage.setItem("a", {x:1,y:2})`, the `localStorage.getItem("a")` will return string `[object Object]`; this is why we don't emulate tree structure with objects, e.g. `localStorage.userfs.app_name.key`, as it will not work; instead we build each key like `userfs/app_name/key`.

2. When we open browser console on Itch.io of a running game and type `userfs.info()`, it doesn't work, "userfs" is not defined. All works locally when running web build with local web server.

    This is due to how Itch.io embeds our game. It does it via IFrame tag. Technically we can get window object of an IFrame on the page with `document.getElementById("game_drop").contentWindow` where "game_drop" is an id of the IFrame and Itch.io uses "game_drop" for the id. But you cannot do `...contentWindow.userfs` as this leads to error:
    ```
    Uncaught SecurityError: Failed to read a named property 'userfs' from 'Window': Blocked a frame with origin "..." from accessing a cross-origin frame.
    ```
    So we cannot do this via JS code (our user code), but we still able to do it via web browser's tools directly. In the web browser Console window toolbar, find dropdown with "top" in it, this is a frame which executes all we type in the console. Select "index.html (html-classic.itch.zone)" and now typing `userfs.info()` should work; browser will execute this code in the window of the running game.
